= DESCRIPTION:

Installs and configures Nagios 3 for a server and for clients using Chef 0.8 search capabilities.

= REQUIREMENTS:

Requires Chef 0.8+ for search capability of roles and data bags.

A data bag named 'users' should exist, see "DATA BAG" below.

The monitoring server that uses this recipe should have a role named 'monitoring' or similar. See "ROLES" below.

Because of the heavy use of search, this recipe will not work with Chef Solo, as it cannot do any searches without a server.

== Platform:

Tested on Ubuntu 9.04+ and Debian 5+.

== Cookbooks:

* apache2

= ATTRIBUTES:

Attributes under the 'nagios' namespace.

== Client:

The following attributes are used for the client NRPE checks for warning and critical levels.

server_role - the role that the nagios server will have in its run list that the clients can search for.

Client also supports the ability to create nrpe checks via attributes and the nrpe_cmd definition

Steps required to add check:

1) Add a new nrpe cmd
=====================
nrpe_cmd node[:nagios][:checks][:load][:check_command] do
        script_name "check_load"
        script_params "-w #{node[:nagios][:checks][:load][:warning]} -c #{node[:nagios][:checks][:load][:critical]}"
end

default[:nagios][:checks][:load][:check_command] = "check_load"
default[:nagios][:checks][:load][:command_line] = "$USER1$/check_nrpe -H $HOSTADDRESS$ -c check_load -t 20"
default[:nagios][:checks][:load][:service_description] = "Load averages on Host"
default[:nagios][:checks][:load][:critical]   = "30,20,10"
default[:nagios][:checks][:load][:warning]    = "15,10,5"

2) Ensure the script is on the client by adding it to files/default/plugins
2.1) Add script to plugins/any if it applies to any architecture(ie shell/perl/ruby script)
2.2) Add script to plugins/<arch> if it applies only to a particular architecture(i686 or x86_64). Recipe checks node[:kernel][:machine] for arch folder
3) Next time the chef-client runs on the client it will add the nrpe check to the system and copy the script over and sets up the attributes for that node
4) Next time the chef-client runs on the server it will add the check to the system by adding entries to services.cfg and commands.cfg

== Server:

client_role - Only clients with this role will have nrpe checks applied
dir - base server configuration directory.
log_dir - where the server logs.
cache_dir - cached directory.
docroot - DocumentRoot for webui.
config_subdir - for dropping in configurations as needed.
notifications_enabled - set to 1 to enable notification.
check_external_commands
default_contact_groups
sysadmin_email - default notification email.
sysadmin_sms_email - default notification sms.
server_auth_method - authentication with the server can be done with openid (using apache2::mod_auth_openid), or htauth (basic). The default is openid, any other value will use htauth (basic).
templates
interval_length - minimum interval.
default_host.check_interval
default_host.retry_interval
default_host.max_check_attempts
default_host.notification_interval
default_service.check_interval
default_service.retry_interval
default_service.max_check_attempts
default_service.notification_interval

= DATA BAGS:

Create a `users` data bag that will contain the users that will be able to log into the Nagios webui. Each user can use htauth with a specified password, or an openid. Example user data bag item:

    nagios[-<environment]: {
      "id": "nagiosadmin",
      "password": "unix hashed password",
      "openid": "http://nagiosadmin.myopenid.com/",
      "nagios": {
        "pager": "nagiosadmin_pager@example.com",
        "email": "nagiosadmin@example.com"
      }
    }
You can specify users for different environments by adding a new set of attributes under nagios-<environment>

When using server_auth_method 'openid', use the openid in the data bag item. Any other value for this attribute (e.g., "htauth", "htpasswd", etc) will use the htpasswd value as the password in `/etc/nagios3/htpasswd.users`.

The openid must have the http:// and trailing /.

= ROLES:

Create a role to use for the monitoring server. The role name should match the value of the attribute "nagios[:server_role]". By default, this is 'monitoring'. For example:

    % cat roles/monitoring.rb
    name "monitoring"
    description "Monitoring server"
    run_list(
      "recipe[nagios::server]"
    )

    default_attributes(
      "nagios" => {
        "server_auth_method" => "htauth"
      }
    )

= USAGE:

For a Nagios server, create a role that matches nagios[:server_role] , and add the following recipe to the run_list:

    recipe[nagios::server]

This will allow client nodes to search for the server by this role and add its IP address to the allowed list for NRPE.

To install Nagios and NRPE on a client node create a role that matches nagios[:client_role] and add the following recipe to the run_list:

    recipe[nagios::client]

The server will by default add all of your nodes as hosts and monitor ping on them

This is a fairly complicated cookbook. We'll describe the components in detail.

== Definitions:

nagios_conf:: This definition is used to drop in a configuration file in the base Nagios configuration directory's conf.d. This can be used for customized configurations for various services.

== Libraries:

default:: The library included with the cookbook provides some helper methods used in templates.

* nagios_boolean
* nagios_interval - calculates interval based on interval length and a given number of seconds.
* nagios_attr - retrieves a nagios attribute from the node.

== Recipes:

=== Client

The client recipe searches for allowed servers via a role named 'monitoring'. The recipe will also install the required packages and start the NRPE service. A custom plugin for checking memory is also added.

Client commands for NRPE can be modified by editing the nrpe.cfg.erb template.

=== Server

The server recipe sets up Apache as the web front end. The nagios::client recipe is also included. This recipe also does a number of searches to dynamically build the hostgroups to monitor, hosts that belong to them and admins to notify of events/alerts.

The recipe does the following:

1. Searches for members through the 'users' data bag and adds them to a list for notification/contacts if they have the nagios attribute.
2. Search all nodes.
3. Search all available roles and build a list which will be the Nagios hostgroups.
4. Search for all nodes of each role and add the hostnames to the hostgroups.
5. Installs various packages required for the server.
6. Sets up some configuration directories.
7. Moves the package-installed Nagios configuration to a 'dist' directory.
8. Disables the 000-default site (present on Debian/Ubuntu Apache2 package installations).
9. Enables the Nagios web front end configuration and enables ssl.
10. Sets up the configuration templates for services, contacts, hostgroups and hosts.

*NOTE*: You will probably need to change the services.cfg.erb template for your environment.

To add custom commands for service checks, these can be done on a per-role basis by editing the 'services.cfg.erb' template. This template has some pre-configured checks that use role names used in an example infrastructure. Here's a brief description:

* monitoring - check_smtp (e.g., postfix relayhost) w/ NRPE and tcp port 514 (e.g., rsyslog)
* load_balancer - check_nginx with NRPE.
* appserver - check_unicorn with NRPE, e.g. a Rails application using Unicorn.
* database_master - check_mysql_server with NRPE for a MySQL database master.

= LICENSE and AUTHOR:

Author:: Joshua Sierles <joshua@37signals.com>
Author:: Nathan Haneysmith <nathan@opscode.com>
Author:: Joshua Timberman <joshua@opscode.com>

Copyright 2009, 37signals
Copyright 2009-2010, Opscode, Inc

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
