= DESCRIPTION:
This is a preliminary version of the RCG users script.  Global admins are loaded from data bags.  Local and role-defined users are listed in the local and role-defined attributes and loaded from data bags.

The data bags are as follows:

groups:  contains the group information
users:  contains the user information, including ssh-key information.

Example user data bag:
{
    "groups": "sysadmin",
    "comment": "Matt Harris",
    "ssh-keys": [
      "ssh-dss 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 matt"
    ],
    "nagios": {
      "email": "matthaeus.harris@gmail.com"
    },
    "id": "matt",
    "uid": 2001,
    "shell": "/bin/bash",
    "password": "$6$EMhuiES.$xQMv4XyXztgKJabDgpZjvF9Ya17TgY92vAGqoJ1GXn6naMLnKmanquuXKNXRXZZNCJai.wgq9QClYCCk2T5GI1"
  }

The "home" and "group" attributes are given sane defaults.  

= REQUIREMENTS:

= ATTRIBUTES:
Roles can provide the users and groups attributes, which should be flat lists of users and groups found in the users and groups data bags.
Nodes can provide the localusers and localgroups attributes, which should be flat lists of users and groups found in the users and groups data bags.

= USAGE:


= Google Auth
You can use the Google Auth recipe to provide two factor ssh authentication with the Google auth service.

In order to use it, you need to do two things:

== 1) Generate a secret key
Use the following snippet to generate a QR code that can be scanned into a Google Authenticator:

#!/usr/bin/env ruby
require 'rubygems'
require 'rotp'
 
secret = ROTP::Base32.random_base32
data = "otpauth://totp/#{`hostname -s`.strip}?secret=#{secret}"
url = "https://chart.googleapis.com/chart?chs=200x200&chld=M|0&cht=qr&chl=#{data}"
 
puts "Your secret key is: #{secret}"
puts url

== 2) Customize your data bag user  attributes to have the following prepended to it:

command="/usr/bin/googel_auth <your secret key>" ssh-dsa AAA...zzz me@example.com
